Dear teacher, I have a question. For example, if
someone steals 100,000 dong from the Three Jewels (Buddha, Dharma, Sangha) and then makes an offering of
2,000 or 3,000 dong,
what kind of karmic retribution will they face? I
respectfully express my gratitude for your merit. Some people
say, "I stole, but I repented and
then made an offering to atone for my sin."
There are two forms of this. The
first is pretending to make an offering of
2,000 or 3,000 dong and then taking out 10,000 dong.
This form is more serious. Now we need to
understand what an offering is.
It is providing for, that is, supplying and nurturing the Sangha,
nourishing the Three Jewels.
Our heart must be the heart of providing and
nurturing the Three Jewels. As long as we remain in the world, we have things like
building temples, painting statues, casting bells,
buying and supplying items for the Three Jewels, serving the
monks, serving those who come to
study and practice. Even buying a light bulb, even if it
's only 5,000 dong to pay the electricity bill, buying a
decorative tile, even buying a roof tile—
that's providing and nurturing within the
Three Jewels. Within the Three Jewels are the Dharma treasures, and so on.  All of
us, when we speak about cause and effect so that
others understand, also make them
believe in cause and effect. That is also an offering to the
Three Jewels. There
are many ways to make offerings to the Three Jewels. One way is to
provide for and nourish them so that the
Three Jewels remain in the world, meaning the Buddha, the
Dharma, and the Sangha remain in the world.
That is called making offerings to the Three Jewels. But what about
those who come here pretending to make offerings to the Three Jewels just
to get 10,000? They
don't provide any support to the Three Jewels at all,
so they don't receive any merit. Do
you understand this point? And what about
those who realize their sins and
now resolve to abandon
those actions, repenting to the Three Jewels?
That action still has merit, even if they haven't
made 1,000 offerings. That is, if we see our
mistakes, repent, and
abandon those actions,
then we all receive blessings. And if
we ask to make offerings to the Three Jewels, with
such a pure heart, we vow that the Three Jewels will remain
in the world.
Even if they have 1000, they still have merit, while the sin of
greed is the consequence of
greed. The merit of offerings is the benefit of the
offerings. These two are different; one does
n't compete with the other,
but it must originate
from the root of one's heart, which is to provide for and
nourish the Three Jewels. When a person realizes
they have done bad things and sincerely repents,
abandoning evil deeds, then this
is the Dharma Jewel. Therefore, they continue to nourish the
Dharma Jewel, which remains in the world, meaning it
remains in their heart. So whatever they have, they
have merit. When they make offerings, it
comes from the heart, and the Dharma Jewel remains in the
world. When they repent and make offerings,
they increase their merit.
Remember that, everyone!
[Music]
That's it!